\begin{abstract}
This project aims at studying linear regression models, in particular Ordinary Least Squares (OLS), Ridge and Lasso regression. These techniques, some resampling methods, Bootstrap and Cross-Validation, and some preprocessing methods, such as scaling and splitting, are here applied to two different cases: the Franke function and topographical terrain data concerning the altitude of a region near Stavanger in Norway. We found that the xx method gave us the best result, in contrast to xx and xx performing worse.
\end{abstract}
\newpage
\section{Introduction}
Linear regression models are a key element in the fields of statistical modelling and machine learning. For this reason, the goal of this project is to study and then apply these techniques, especially Ordinary Least Squares (OLS), Ridge Regression and Lasso Regression. \\
The first part of the report wants to show all the methods and the theoretical explanation of the techniques that have been applied during the analysis. Together with OLS, Ridge, and Lasso regression, this section focuses also on some resampling techniques, in particular k-fold Cross-validation and Bootstrap. Along with the explanation of these methods, some necessary clarifications are made, especially focusing on model accuracy, splitting data into train and test sets and scaling data. All these topics are fundamental in this field: without a correct knowledge of them, it is very difficult to completely understand how to apply and compare the different models and analyze the results.\\
After the presentation of the theory and the methods, the project focuses on a more practical part. The first step consists in applying the above mentioned techniques to a specific two-dimensional function, the so-called Franke function. \\
In this regard, the third section of this report aims at presenting the results obtained with the application of all the techniques to this function. A comparison between all the methods (both varying the polynomial degree and the values of lambda in Ridge and Lasso), together with a critical discussion is presented in this part, with the goal to show our interpretation of the obtained results. An additional topic is the bias-variance trade-off: a lot of time have been dedicated to the analysis of this behaviour, as a function of the polynomial degree and the number of points in the dataset.\\
Finally, a second application, even more practical, is shown in the last section of the project. All the same steps have been applied to a real dataset, collecting digital terrain data about the altitude of a region located near Stavanger in Norway. The aim is to analyze how well terrain data can be approximated by polynomials. Also in this case, an analysis and an interpretation of the results is necessary to understand which method fits the data best. \\
All the computational work has been implemented in python, through a set of Jupyter notebooks, that can be found in the GitHub folder of the project.
